---
author: Janet Ruppert
comments: true
date: 2018-10-15 19:13:21.247641
layout: post
title: Play is not the opposite of work
slug: play-is-not-the-opposite-of-work
---
__"Play is children's most serious work." - Edith Ackermann__

We are all natural-born scientists. Our curiosity for the world around us propels us to hypothesize how things work, test out our ideas, reevaluate our original hypothesis, and then continue to experiment. Experimentation and play are powerful learning tools for gaining concrete knowledge about the world. Observing how your shadow moves and warps when you move, experimenting with different ways of pushing other kids in the tire swing, mixing paint colors in art class to see what is yielded from different combinations, playing with the insects and lizards in your neighborhood...many of these activities loosely follow the scientific method. Driven by the questions we want answered and the outcomes we want realized, we tinker with the inputs until our curiosity is fulfilled.

This approach, of learning by doing, and letting personal interests guide the way, is neither valued nor supported in most formal educational settings. As children grow older, what they are learning in school and what they find personally and collectively meaningful become increasingly disconnected. The most popular learning approaches emphasize teaching concepts in an abstract way and thus, are perceived an inapplicable to the "real world" by many students. Additionally, the nature of work students are being prepared for is in flux, as is the nature of the media we consume. Educators' efforts to integrate technology with learning environments are not revolutionizing classrooms so much as moving existing activities online. Our educational system is facing the serious task of leveraging emerging technology to connect with students' interests and prepare them for the ever-changing world they will live in.

My vision of future classrooms is one in which educators support young people as they explore their interests, whether a cultural conflict, a movement for social change, or an art project, and connect the learning-by-making experience with academic objectives and the greater cultural-historical context. Learning does not only happen in school, it's an ecological network of formal schooling, extracurriculars, family learning, personal hobbies, and much more. Young people deserve to see the connections between in-school and out-of-school learning, and would benefit from those liasons by buying&nbsp;into their education.&nbsp;The role of technology will be&nbsp;supporting and amplifying the information-gathering, creating, and sharing processes involved in this learning approach. There are schools that support creative, exploratory, and playful learning approaches, like Reggio Emilia&nbsp;and&nbsp;Montessori schools, but they are a rare and exclusive experience. Our public education system can do better. Young people, straddled with the hopes and fears of every generation before them, deserve better. Let's design learning with students in mind, and approach it&nbsp;with the curiosity and experimental&nbsp;spirit that we were all born with.&nbsp;